Whiplash

Whiplash makes the world's most volatile asset class, memecoins, more volatile. Degen to the power of degen. A novel AMM for unified spot and leverage trading from day zero, with zero seed capital required.

How it works:

Whiplash uses a modified Uniswap V2 style AMM with the invariant x * y = k. Spot trading happens just like on uniswap, maintaining the K invariant.

1. Launching a coin

Whiplash enables permissionless asset creation with no seed capital required for liquidity. When a coin is created, 100% of the tokens are added to the liquidity pool and the supply is fixed.
This way, the stablecoin/SOL side of the liquidity pool can be 'virtual' (not real), since there is no way the pool can reach a state where the SOL reserves are insufficient to cover the output of a swap.
This is because 100% of the token supply is in the liquidity pool and it is fixed, creating a zero sum game.

2. Opening a leverage position

When a leverage trade is made, we pretend as though we are swapping the full amount (collateral * leverage),
and store the output tokens in a position manager (not the user's wallet). Thus, leverage trading decreases the k when a position is opened and restores it when it is closed/liquidated.

3. Closing a leverage position

When closing a leveraged position, we add back the 'borrowed' amount (collateral * leverage - collateral) to the appropriate reserve and swap. 
We ensure that the output is >= borrowed amount, and deduct that from the reserve and output, the user receives the remainder (minus fees).

4. Liquidation

When a position cannot be closed (output < borrowed amount), it is eligible for liquidation. The liquidation price is such that swapping outputs
the 'borrowed amount' (collateral * leverage - collateral). The liquidation is treated as a fixed price limit order and can be fulfilled by anyone 
as long as the above conditions are met. This can be fulfilled by aggregators, arbitrageurs, etc when the price is better than the spot price.

5. Limbo

During periods with high volatility, a position can go underwater without being 'liquidated'. This position is now in limbo - the user cannot close it,
but if the price goes favorably they may be able to in the future (assuming they don't get liquidated first). This protects positions from flash price changes and flashloan attacks.

